---
layout: page
subheadline:  "toward the mountain"
title:  "C++ little things"
teaser: "compilation of little things in C++"
categories:
    - C++
tags:
    - C++
    - skills
comments: true
show_meta: true

---
<div class="row">
<div class="medium-9 medium-push-10 columns" markdown="1">
<div class="panel radius" markdown="1">
**Table of Contents**
{: #toc }
*  TOC
{:toc}
</div>
</div><!-- /.medium-4.columns -->



<div class="medium-14 medium-pull-3 columns" markdown="1">



<h1> C++ skills </h1>
<br> 
<br> 

C++ skills
===
<br> 

* <del>[return temporary object by const reference is OK](http://herbsutter.com/2008/01/01/gotw-88-a-candidate-for-the-most-important-const/) </del>
* DO NOT return temporary object by const reference

	* There are some weird bugs as result.
	* temporary Smart pointer will be deconstructed in this case
	* Always return pointer by value
<br> 


Pass Eigen Matrix parameter
---
* Passing part of Eigen::Matrix using block
<pre>
<code>
/// function decleration
func(Eigen::Ref<Eigen::Matrix<3,1> >);

Eigen::Matrix<3,1> mat;
func(
	mat.block(startRow
			, startCol
			, rows
			, cols)
);




</code>
</pre>

# Read Array Type

	int *ptrs[10]; // ptrs is an array of ten pointers to int
	int &refs[10] = /* ? */; // error: no arrays of references
	int (*Parray)[10] = &arr; // Parray points to an array of ten ints
	int (&arrRef)[10] = arr; // arrRef refers to an array of ten ints

By default, type modifiers bind right to left. Reading the definition of ptrs from right to left (§ 2.3.3, p. 58) is easy: We see that we’re defining an array of size 10, named ptrs, that holds pointers to int.

Reading the definition of Parray from right to left isn’t as helpful. Because the
array dimension follows the name being declared, it can be easier to read array
declarations from the inside out rather than from right to left. Reading from the inside out makes it much easier to understand the type of Parray. We start by observing
that the parentheses around *Parray mean that Parray is a pointer. Looking right,
we see that Parray points to an array of size 10. Looking left, we see that the
elements in that array are ints. Thus, Parray is a pointer to an array of ten ints.
Similarly, (&arrRef) says that arrRef is a reference. The type to which it refers is
an array of size 10. That array holds elements of type int.

Of course, there are no limits on how many type modifiers can be used:

	int *(&arry)[10] = ptrs; // arry is a reference to an array of ten pointers

Reading this declaration from the inside out, we see that arry is a reference. Looking
right, we see that the object to which arry refers is an array of size 10. Looking left,

we see that the element type is pointer to int. Thus, arry is a reference to an array
of ten pointers.
> Tip
> It can be easier to understand array declarations by starting with the array’s name and reading them from the inside out.
</div><!-- /.medium-8.columns -->

</div><!-- /.row -->
